2.5 beta release blogpost (#354)
mixxxdj/website: content/news/XXXX-XX-XX-mixxx-2-5-beta-released.md

Funny things happen in spring, birds start nesting and lay eggs, and so did the Mixxx developers.
A bit late for Easter but it is a magnificent giant gift filled with smaller gifts: Mixxx 2.5 beta!
You can find the details about the new version below.

#### Appeal

Before releasing 2.5 as the next stable release we need it to be tested thoroughly, something we can't do on our own.
After some time looking at the same release and searching for solutions we might forget miner bugs or problems.
That's why we need **YOU** to help us. The more people testing this Beta and reporting eventual bugs to the [bugtracker](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues), the faster the beta can be promoted to stable.
In case you're scared of messing up your neetly configured PC and losing your holy data is your Haloween-nightmare, read the new wiki article [safeguard your Mixxx Data](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki).
It explains about making a timestamp-image, backing up your data, tips and tricks.
Please [join the Mixxx team](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/).
In Mixxx we trust.

#### Highlights

* In version 2.5 Mixxx steps up from QT 5 to QT 6 [QT-website](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6).

> * Important for all controller mapping contributors: the introduction of the new handling of controller-mappings. Please give us feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Important for all controller mapping contributors: the introduction of the custom per-mapping settings. Please give us feedback.
```

Since we don't have strong doc around that, it might be worth to reference the [PR for the only mapping using that feature](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12995), so mapping developers can take inspiration from it?

title: Mixxx 2.5 beta released
authors: Evelynne Veys
tags: 2.5, beta, release announcement
comments: yes
status: draft

#### Dear Mixxx-ers

Funny things happen in spring, birds start nesting and lay eggs, and so did the Mixxx developers.
A bit late for Easter but it is a magnificent giant gift filled with smaller gifts: Mixxx 2.5 beta!
You can find the details about the new version below.

#### Appeal

Before releasing 2.5 as the next stable release we need it to be tested thoroughly, something we can't do on our own.
After some time looking at the same release and searching for solutions we might forget miner bugs or problems.
That's why we need **YOU** to help us. The more people testing this Beta and reporting eventual bugs to the [bugtracker](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues), the faster the beta can be promoted to stable.

> In case you're scared of messing up your neetly configured PC and losing your holy data is your Haloween-nightmare, read the new wiki article [safeguard your Mixxx Data](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki/Safeguard%20your%20Digital%20DJ%20Data).

Reviewer 2: new url is
https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki/Safeguard-your-Digital-DJ-Data

Author: fixed

title: Mixxx 2.5 beta released
authors: Evelynne Veys
tags: 2.5, beta, release announcement
comments: yes
status: draft

> #### Dear Mixxx-ers

Reviewer 3: both recent blog posts start with this heading, and this looks a little weird.  Let's pick a different headline or just drop this header

Author: adressing people with a friendly name based on something common helps building a community, it's about involving people, making the distances shorter. Or do you mean the 'Dear'?
Any suggestions? "Wazzup  Mixxx-ers?" "Dear Mixxx-DJ's"

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to address the reader at all... I see what you are doing but I think you can drop the heading and just start with the content

```suggestion
```

> Funny things happen in spring, birds start nesting and lay eggs, and so did the Mixxx developers.

Reviewer 3: in English, "laying an egg" means "farting", and also implies that something not-so-great was created.  Let's use a different metaphor :)

Author: what about "animals take care of offspring" ?
(in (slang) dutch alpha & beta also mean different things, I think a lot of words have extra slang meanings. The combination of birds, nest easter egg does set a meaning no?)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's springtime, and baby birds recently hatched from their eggs are looking out of their nests deciding if they are ready to fly. So too it is with Mixxx, and version 2.5 is almost ready to greet the world.
```

A bit late for Easter but it is a magnificent giant gift filled with smaller gifts: Mixxx 2.5 beta!
You can find the details about the new version below.

#### Appeal

> Before releasing 2.5 as the next stable release, we need it to be tested thoroughly, something we can't do on our own.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before releasing 2.5 as the next stable release, we need it to be tested thoroughly, something we can't do all on our own.
```

> After some time looking at the same release and searching for solutions, we might forget minor bugs or problems.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After some time looking at the same release and searching for solutions, we might overlook minor bugs or problems.  
```

> That's why we need **YOU** to help us. The more people testing this Beta and reporting eventual bugs to the [bug tracker](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues), the faster the beta can be promoted to stable.  

Reviewer 3: let's not capitalize "beta"
```suggestion
That's why we need **YOU** to help us. The more people testing this beta and reporting eventual bugs to the [bug tracker](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/issues), the faster the beta can be promoted to stable.  
```

> In case you're scared of messing up your neatly configured PC and losing your holy data is your Haloween nightmare, read the new wiki article [Safeguard Your Mixxx Data](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki/Safeguard-your-Digital-DJ-Data).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case you're scared of messing up your neatly configured PC and losing your holy data is your Halloween nightmare, read the new wiki article [Safeguard Your Mixxx Data](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/wiki/Safeguard-your-Digital-DJ-Data).
```

> It explains about making a timestamp-image, backing up your data and offers tips and tricks.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It explains how to creata a timestamped image, how to back up your data and offers tips and tricks.  
```

> It explains how to creata a timestamped image, how to back up your data and offers tips and tricks.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It explains how to create a timestamped image, how to back up your data, and other tips and tricks.  
```

A beta release contains the solutions for problems that occurred and were notified by users who tested the alpha release.
The beta release is a general check before the new version can be released.  
The Mixxx database and settings of Mixxx 2.4.x stable are equal to those in Mixxx 2.5 beta, which means you can install the 2.5 over the 2.4 and vice versa without a problem.  

> After you have successfully tested this 2.5 beta for yourself, you can continue using this version in your bedroom or even during live DJ-ing, and thus benefit from the new features.  

Reviewer 2: Hmm, not sure what this should tell me. Users should test any version before going live.

Reviewer 4: I think the essence should be, that there is nothing against using a beta live, when you have tested it yourself and you like to benefit from a new feature. Do you have an idea to phrase this nice?

Author: indeed, any version should be tested, but using an alpha and certainly a beta doesn't mean that your computer can explode. I wanted to explain that a beta is a very good version, with minor bug that need to be corrected before the stable release.

> A beta release contains the solutions for problems that occurred and were notified by users who tested the alpha release.
> The beta release is a general check before the new version can be released.  
> The Mixxx database and settings of Mixxx 2.4.x stable are equal to those in Mixxx 2.5 beta, which means you can install the 2.5 over the 2.4 and vice versa without a problem.  
> After you have successfully tested this 2.5 beta for yourself, you can continue using this version in your bedroom or even during live DJ-ing, and thus benefit from the new features.  

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to explain what a beta is.

```suggestion
The Mixxx database and settings format of Mixxx 2.4.x stable have not changed in Mixxx 2.5 beta, which means you can install the 2.5 over the 2.4 and revert back without a problem.  
We don't recommend using the beta version in public performances, but you can if you like!  
```

Author: > I don't think we need to explain what a beta is.

Maybe not for regular visitors / github users / people who experiment with software, but for a lot of people alpha, beta, release, ... sounds as extraterrestrial rocket science. 
Perhaps a wiki article about the Mixxx development process and used terms could help?

Please [join Mixxx](https://mixxx.org/get-involved/).
In Mixxx, we (can) trust.

#### Highlights

> * In version 2.5, Mixxx steps up from Qt 5 to [Qt 6](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6). This will improve hardware support, and should allow Mixxx to gain in compatibility with latest operating systems and hardware.

Reviewer 2: The Qt6 link doesn hurt, but do we really need such tech links?

Reviewer 4: I like to keep it. Because this is THE mayor change in the new release, hopefully invisible for users though.

Author: I think some people don't know what QT is but are/can be interested to learn about.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In version 2.5, Mixxx moves from depending on Qt 5 to [Qt 6](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6). This will improve hardware support and will enable Mixxx to be compatible with latest operating systems and hardware.
```

> * In version 2.5, Mixxx moves from depending on Qt 5 to [Qt 6](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6). This will improve hardware support and will enable Mixxx to be compatible with latest operating systems and hardware.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* In version 2.5, Mixxx moves from depending on Qt 5 to [Qt 6](https://www.qt.io/product/qt6). This will improve hardware support and will enable Mixxx to be compatible with latest operating systems and hardware. However, this upgrade necessitates the discontinuation of support for older operating systems, specifically macOS versions earlier than 11, Windows 7 and 8.1 and Ubuntu 20.04 "Focal Fossa" and older.
```
```

> * There is now a GUI for adjusting custom controller mapping settings directly in the preferences, compared to previously where they would have to be edited the script file manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Controller mapping settings can now be adjusted directly in the preferences, compared to previously where they would have to be manually edited in script files.
```

> * Controller mapping can now define custom settings for the user to adjust directly in the preference windows, compare to previously where they would have to edit the file manually.
>   ![Controller setting example]({static}/images/news/controller_setting.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There is now a GUI for adjusting custom controller mapping settings directly in the preferences, compared to previously where they would have to be edited the script file manually.
  ![Controller setting example]({static}/images/news/controller_setting.png)
```
I suggest to remove the screenshot.
Is this feature worth a dedicated blog post?

>   This is only supported on JavaScript mapping. Note that the 2.5 version will remain open for mapping contributions which add setting definitions. An example on how to do so can be found on [this pull request for the S4 Mk3](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12995).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Controller settings are only available for JavaScript mappings. We will remain open for mapping contributions to 2.5 which add setting definitions. An example on how to do so can be found on [this pull request for the S4 Mk3](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12995).
```

Here are some more highlights:

> * Display of the number of beats and the time until next hot-cue or loop in the waveform [#12994](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12994)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Display the number of beats and the time until next hot-cue or loop in the waveform [#12994](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12994)
```

> * Visualization of SlipMode when using the RGB GLSL waveform [#13002](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13002)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Visualization of Slip Mode when using the RGB GLSL waveform [#13002](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13002)
```

> * A hideable main window menu [#11526](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/11526)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* An option to hide the main window menu bar [#11526](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/11526)
```

> * A command line option `--start-autodj` to start Auto DJ immediately after Mixxx start. [#13017](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13017)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A command line option `--start-autodj` to start Auto DJ immediately after Mixxx starts. [#13017](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/13017)
```

* A beatloop anchor to set and adjust loop from either start or end [#12745](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12745)

> * A Compressor [#12523](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12523) and Glitch effect [#11329](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/11329)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* New effects: A Compressor [#12523](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12523) and Glitch [#11329](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/11329)
```

> * Audio Unit (AU) plugins on macOS [#12112](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12112)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Support for Audio Unit (AU) plugins on macOS [#12112](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12112)
```

> * A track property editor for multiple track at once [#12548](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12548)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Modify properties on multiple tracks at once [#12548](https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/12548)
```
